Codesandbox setup:

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1r-xshsOk_zr7MXBLZyohjFZyY5bEuJea4L_ExvoHOW4/edit#slide=id.p

React Internals & Props:

https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15AZoKwZyLPJI2ppL2xuxNe3aiHxYSlBq14q6fK1DlUs/edit#slide=id.p


Who introduced React

React-Facebook=>2012-2013

What Led to React:
Developers hungry for tools and they wanted nice1
they wanted to build large scale applications
but they didnt had anything in thier hands and no proper tools were available

slide no:1: What led to React?
Before React What was the state of WEB?
Let us understand

Tech Advancement:

What was happening in Tech Advancement at that tym?

In Hardware what was happening, 

Mobile/Cellphones were flooding the market at affordable price
Samsung made the cellphones at the cheaper rates
and everyone was almost using this and you all were actively participating
It was the starting point where almost all people started using cellphones
at least in India but people were more comfortable using Samsung as it was at affordable price

One more thing happened,which was not previously had never happened
Internet right? things were making at more affordable  and people were switching to jio 
and more people onboarded because of jio right?
everyone becoming online which was not previously happened

Before JIO, if you are aware , what was the cost
how much other network used to provide us/ charge us for 3G?
28days -1GB right

Slide No 2:

Before Vs After:
Something 353 for 28 days something at that time i used to put in cellphones
We used to get 1GB not for per day but for 1 month

Just think about it....
1GB Per month 
Now if you say to the kids they will be laughing know

You cant watch Videos streaming , if you do so your 1 month data pack is over 
So we used to download the stuff and watch it ... so that we can make the bes use of it.

Also we are not done , with all this stuff, we need to put so many things apart from that 
*Call rate cutter
*SMS pack
*Internet pack
*Roaming Charges

And streaming no can imagine but now we have 1 pack 1 solution 349 and then we are done

It was not that old all this stuff , it was just 10years back and it feels like so old because we are living in internet age 
But this is what the reality that time and people were not able to access internet at all

But once these two advancement happened more and more people started coming into the internet 

Before this the barrier to entry was very high like your to buy a laptop which cost at 20000 rupees 

Now u can just by a 10000 /6000 RS mobile phone where you easily surf and play the games over the internet 

Slide No 3:

COST OF MOBILE INTERNET AROUND THE WORLD:

It is just nice graph of mobile internet charge stats throughout the world and sO mobile traffic was slowly slowly increasing right

You can see here the stats of the same
In India, it was cheaper as you can see here .

My friend in US complaints about the data pack available cost but anyways he is earning more so he can afford :)

But the best thing in india internet is very very cheaper as compared to throughout the world 

I don't know how many people have seen that internet cafe and I don't know now how many people remember it?
there used to be a place where you go and sit right? and then there will be 20 computer available 
 -you do some serious stuff , surf internet etc of your choice.
-if that place was crowded place then you will not get any speed right?
-so only 1hr like this is wasted for loading the things literally 
-----That used be the times -----

Now things literally changed now we have mobile internet and fibre cable .
So all this things were happening slowly slowly.

SO ALL THESE THINGS LED TO :

Slide No 4:

THE RISE OF MOBILE TRAFFIC AND CURRENT MOBILE TRAFFIC SHARE

Internet traffic is more and more coming from mobile phone like if you see the graph from 2009 2020 . 
-at 2009 literally nothing was only Apple phones were flooding in the market 
-only using it 2010 2011 2012  things getting serious 
-2015 15 16 18 19 there is the high growth literally and it got boosted here and totally 50% is from now mobiles here 
-In 2020 there is dip here, anyone tell me why so?
-Work from home , Covid- People continously working -Sick of using mobiles phone - that was the reason I think things are coming normal and people again are increasing.

Slide No 5:
MOST POPULAR SOCIAL PLATFORMS:

if you're in some statistics of social media
- Facebook has the highest user based u can see 2.7 billion users are there which are active user 
-If you know, in some of the places in the world like for them internet is Facebook 
-from searching, shopping everything they do on facebook and from the facebook itself 
-Thats why there are huge users of facebook

-I would also say, one of reason was REACT as well all prediction and their implementation of react right?
 lead to good performance right and they were able to capitalise on it
 
  and we'll see how they are able to and what they did with REACT that led to this kind of super grade user based on facebook

  WE WILL SE THAT BEFORE THAT ,

  Slide No 6:

  EFFECTS:
  
  Before that I think so there was a drop in barrier to entry to the internet with mobile phone
  Due to this there was huge mobile internet traffic coming from mobile

what all this means, huge business opportunity right ? 
because there were new users coming to the internet people who never used internet they were coming online in that 
now go to the village side now people are watching worldmovies and their expecting a high level right
why this movie is not like this Tamil movie and they are expecting a lot 
this happened because of the one thing  
-i.e "COVID" 
-2nd is access to Phones and Internet
So all these means that huge business opportunity

AND facebook saw money in their eyes and they saw this happening in 2010 itself 
then they want to like make it happened that they won't have their most user and they did it and see how they did it with React 

Slide No 7:

MOST POPULAR VIDEO STREAMING PLATFORMS

Another statistics I want to bring in this fine let's skip to this 

This is the one I want to like talk about the most 
-first thing when they were building react why they kept in mind 
1.that it should be responsive 
2.website should be easily able to adapt to the different screen sizes 

What happens , if your website is not responsive, Google will give you lesser rank for your website 
so when you search in Google automatically the ranking is lower right if  its not responsive 

Google gave them less rank/ratings and hence they were forced to build an responsive website 
In REact, all these things were kept in mind.

Lets imagine you going for camping , so you are taking mobiles phones obivously with you .
What is the worst thing that can happen to your mobile phone  while going camping and trekking

-No network
-No one going, u are alone going alone

In 1 Picture , i can show you things you love in lyf and hate
-Low Battery
-loading
-slow WIFI speed

We love,
-FULL Battery
-Loaded
-WIFI SPEED

WORST NIGHTMARE, nowadays .
Its looks very scary.
All these things they kept in mind while building REACT
they want all the things in REACT what we love.
and so they want to give best developer experince and user experince

SO for what they do, thats we are going to discuss, how they bought all these things to REACT.
BEFORE going there let us differentiate between 2 things

WEB APPLICATION AND WEBSITE

You guys , let me what is the differentiations
WEB APPLICATION
-Interactive
-add input from the user
-dynamic in nature

IN one line, user can interact with it.
Facebook, twitter -with your data you can modify the data
CRUD will affect the website with your data.
if your able to do in the website, then its an WEB APP
another example-GMAIL, BANKING APP
In any anyway , you are adding your own data to it.

WEBSITE
-For the information(WIKIPEDIA)
-Static

It can be very beautiful.
Example-https://www.awwwards.com/

Its an cool website , they rank the everyday an cool website, they will show the cool website for the day 
you can see here....
See how beautiful this is , its looks very pretty right.

Its looks very pretty , let me its webapp or website

can i add my data to it, i can just view it, i cant do any changes

What is a website 
where there is no way user can interact with it , it is just there for information purpose or for just viewing it 
wikipedia is an good example also and this kind of portfolio websites, these websites are more generally for viewing purposes only and people enjoy it 

which is one you think REACT is going to solve the problem
The harder problem, right WEB APP .
Yes, Definately you can build both the things with the REACT
but the main idea here is to build an WEB APP.


WOULD GIVE AN SMALL REVIEW ON REACT.

Do you all think ,the browser understand react?

We are going to talk Webapps going to be build with React.

how many people think Browser understands react ?
                OR
how many people think browser does not understand react?

Yes, majority has won it. Browser doesnt understand react.

It understand only 3 things, we have already learnt those 3 things.What are those.
1-HTML
2-CSS
3-JavaScript
These are 3 things which browser understand 
and so how to make browsers understand react then right?

Whatever we writing we need to make the browsers understand right?

For example: 
React is like french
HTML CSS JavaScript is like english

So lets say browsers only understand English then what you need.
What do we need in between?

A translator Or a compiler

It should translate into these 3 things , where the browser will understand If you think about it,
So we need help of these 2 people,
->Webpack 
->Babel

Webpack and babel will do this translation for us behind the scenes, so it will be converted into these 3 things.

If you think about it, if react is converted into these 3 things, HTML, CSS and JS, then why do we need React at all.
Whatever i can do with  react , i can do wih these 3 things HTML CSS JS because at the end of the day, React is getting converted into these 3 things.

Then why i need React specially , what could be the reason?

So, i will give an example here,
these 3 things are like hammer 
React is like a driller

So i give you a Work
you will nail 100 nails in your home

Which will you use?
Hammer or a driller

Driller right?

React has all the tools necessary to start any app that you want
immediately start, build it all the necessary things it has 
that is why we go for react even though it is going to convet in all these 3 things

Build larger application quicker, that is the idea of using it.

if your app is  very small than you don't need react at all

all apps that we have in mind are not really small at all example like swiggy Uber Facebook
all these might look very simple but you know underlying thing is like super huge
things happening behind the scenes
so whatever we are building nowadays are becoming Complex and bigger and larger than that is the reason we are picking up react 

If you are using something very very simple right there is only one page no need to go for React 

Features Of REACT

SPA:
Single Page Application

We have Learnt this , maybe in last last class 
SPA means single page application 
MPA means multi page application, these are traditional websites

How traditional websites work ?
One you load the .com, lets say SBI.com

1st time it makes the request the server and server responses with the HTML page

and then let's say you want to go to the about page 
then again request will go the server and server responses with the about HTML file will loaded.

So every time whatever page you want to go to ,a new HTML file page will be loaded(about.html,contact.html like that a new HTML will be loaded) 

so you will see entire page refreshing and i can say you in real time in this website picture 

Lets open 1 example:

https://retail.onlinesbi.sbi/personal/

So everytime, if you see here the page is loading again and again right
So is this a good user experience? think about it?

In between also there is blank page is this a good experince? 

No right,it doesnt look nice and it takes time to load as well.

So we want to avoid all these , so how can we avoid it?
it by using SPA

so initially first load the 1st HTML file like index.html file
now you want to load the contact page, so keep everything as it is and just new part will be refreshed

Only changed the that part and do the changes
if we see the example, sidebar remains as it is , only the main content is changed
and we like this one and we want the same in our application.

Have you seen the Facebook refreshing?
No, Right

Have you seen refreshing in Twitter
No, Right

This is the 1st feature of React, it should be a single page application
so nice smooth experience.

Now, we have another problem with the traditional apps.
Let us compare two pages
https://retail.onlinesbi.sbi/personal/
https://retail.onlinesbi.sbi/personal/etdr_estdr_faq.html

what is common in these 2 pages
What is the change here?
only the content is changed but if we see, entire page is getting loaded.
So what is the cost to the user in this scenario?
=>Lag /Loading time
=>Datapack/Internet
=>Since its processing again and again, it has too use the power ie. battery, which will lead to bad battery life

Which is too much for the user, 

As a developer, we should be helping them and not eating ups their things.
So, most of the people like SPA, it is fast and it doesnt uses much battery life.

Next Slide:- Traditional and Single Page Application
3 pages
in this , whole page is loaded and refreshed
whereas, in SPA , that is not the case, we are going to be smart about it.

We will keep , everything as it is, we are going to change only the chnaged part
so we will replace only the stuff where something else needs to be loaded.

So this is the smartness of the SPA.
Plug this peice and take off that piece , its just like swapping .

That is whole about the SPA.
SPA is more smarter , instead of loading the entire page , swap the content which are changing 
This is the power of SPA.

All are not greens in SPA, ie. there are some diadvntages as well in SPA.

Sequential experience(Traditional)
Fluid experience(SPA)

What is shown in the graph in the graph, can anyone guess what this is all about.
so here we have pages yellow, green and blue and time loaded.

MPA:
In loading all the 3 pages, same amount of time is been utilized
yellow to blue to orange

SPA:
In loading the start page , it takes lot of time and then later in swapping , within no time pages are swapped.
You can from yellow to oranage and vice-versa , within no time it will pages will be swapped.

Any app, if you take, people are okay if at first time load its takes time.
but for each page , if its time no one agrees to it so people prefer this.

there are various ways to reduce time of the initial load.
but for few people, they think initial load time is more , so they think its the disadvantage.
but for other subsequent pages load are very fast and quick.

To summarise the advatages of SPA:
=>Smooth performance 
=>No refresh
=>Data saving - Better caching

With all these things, we get better UI experience.
and with 1 feature , we are fixing all the disadavtages and we are able to bring the give best UI experience

Second feature of REACT:
Reusability:
How does React hepls in Reusability

REACT COMPONENTS SLIDE:
So lets take any this app/ website as an example.
We have certain parts of app we can be reused.
lets have this 1 pattern 

"1" is used 2 times in the app
Here the idea is why to build it two times, just build it once and use two times

"2"is used only 1nce
"3" is used 2 times
"4" is used 3 times

All of them we have build it once and used the as many times as we want to show the samein our app

so when this waas introduced by React, everything went crazy actually.
This was the awesome feature.

This was not new here, we have came across similar kind of feature in JS as well
what is that?
FUNCTIONS.

The idea of build it once and use it as many times is the function itself.
but the twist in REACT,

in function, we have only the logic part 
but to this pattern in REACT they gave a name as components.

In this components, we not only have the logic but we also have the view.
VIEW (HTML+CSS)

Since they were ale to put JS+HTML+CSS, it became very easy to build large application
This is the main feature of REACT , and now widely used.

COMPONENTS=LOGIC+VIEW

So lets take an example: GUVI website
if you see here, there is a pattern here , the box here.
there is a similar pattern .
and its used how many times, 4 times

So in this case what is different, only the text is different rest all is same.

Lets take another example as well...
Do we have a pattern here?

Yes, so its builded once and reused again and again.
if its a good website, you see always reapeating the stuffs. because it looks good.

Next slide:
How this is useful is?
This pattern becomes building blocks of our website.

These 3 are the small blocks/patterns and it result them into final product.
so you build small small components and then yoou combine them together to build a very big product

The same way , i showed the example, small small components and building up together .


Now, we will set up the Codesandbox

Setup the codesandbox and  share the URL in the chat.

so here if i want Hello Anusha, guyz tell me which line i need to change.
Line no 6 right.
Now we can see the same in output 

Even , if we dont know REACT, we are able to do it.
Now, there is one wiered thing which we can see this.

Have you ever seen HTML is written inside the function.
No right.
Function can return object , number but not HTML right. but here its returning.

We are somehow combining the lOGIC part with our HTML and CSS
what we are doing, we are combinig LOGIC+VIEW part.

https://codesandbox.io/s/dazzling-wu-jtd0js?file=/src/App.js

It looks like HTML but is it really a HTML?

it is not HTML , it is JSX =>JavaScript XML

What does browser understand?
HTML CSS JS
so this 3 things will be converted into 3 things=>HTML CSS JavaScript
by whom it will change=>Webpack and Babel

Now, behind the scene, let me show you how they convert it.

If we go to the BAbel website.
https://babeljs.io/repl

At the end of the day , the code is getting converted into valid JavaScript.

and now why we are using classname here?
Since we have here JSX and it will convert to JavaScript.
and class is a reserved keyword in JS
Hence , we have to use classname .

label for should not be used , we need to use htmlFor.

So, now we need HTML file to render on the browser and link up all the HTML files
Right?
check and let me know where is the HTML file

And if you see in index.js file, there is something document.getElementById('')
so that means there is somewhere html file.

its inside the public folder=>index.html

This is the starting point of our React here.

this root we are accessing in index.js file like document.getElementById('root')

We dont need to go so much deep,but still i will tell you whats happening here.

we are creating the element and asking App to render inside this .
Whatever we write in App component that only it should br started and displayed inside the Root in the index.html file.

where should be displayed=>inside the root
what should we display=?<App/>

So now let us open and check in the browser
if you inspect, if you will get all the things inside the root
but if you check the open the view source , nothing will be visible, code will not be there.

So who is loading that all the stuffs inside the Root.
index.js file.
index.js file is responsible of loading the App component inside the HTML file

Now, we have always 2 steps when we write the function
first is defining and second is calling the same function.
At the top we are defining and then we are going to call it.

But we wont call App() like this,
we will call <App/>---like this the way we call it in HTML

Also all function cannot be a component only some special can be a component
that also we will discuss it later.

Anyone knows what is noscript for which is in index.html

So when you disable javascript , in your system then this message will display

In our browsers, we have option to disable the JS in browser.

chrome://settings/content/javascript
then you can disable it and then you will see this message.

Example : twitter
twitter also requires JS 

So now 1 doubt can come to your mind, why we need to disable it.
Historically for performance
Avoid Ads
Pure reading heaven - eg: medium.com, hindu.com

React Installation Process

Slide No 40 Completed.

const name="DivyaShree"
const time=30;
return(
  <div>
      <h1>Time to complete-{time*2}</h1>
      <p>Hello,{name}</p>
  </div>
)
































































































































































