npx create-react-app appname
folder structure explain:

Explain the Folder structure:
When you create a new React application using npx create-react-app, it generates a default folder structure for you. Here's an example of the folder structure created by create-react-app:

my-app
├── node_modules
├── public
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── favicon.ico
├── src
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── App.js
│   ├── App.test.js
│   ├── index.css
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── logo.svg
│   ├── serviceWorker.js
│   ├── setupTests.js
├── .gitignore
├── package.json
├── README.md


Let's briefly go through the purpose of each folder and file:

node_modules: This folder contains all the dependencies installed for your project. It is managed by npm (Node Package Manager).

public: This folder contains static assets that will be served by your application. The main file in this folder is index.html, which is the entry point of your React application.

src: This is the main folder where you'll be working on your React application. It contains the source code of your application, including the JavaScript files, CSS files, and other assets.

App.css, App.js, App.test.js: These files are part of the default App component. You can modify or replace them as per your application's requirements.

index.css and index.js: These files are responsible for rendering the root component (App) into the DOM.

logo.svg: An example SVG file that can be used or replaced with your own logo or other assets.

serviceWorker.js: A file that enables you to create a progressive web application (PWA) with offline caching and other features.

setupTests.js: A file used for configuring test settings if you decide to write tests for your application.

.gitignore: This file specifies which files and folders should be ignored by Git version control.

package.json: This file holds metadata about your project and lists the project's dependencies and scripts.

README.md: A readme file that typically contains information about your project, including setup instructions and other relevant details.

Keep in mind that this is the initial folder structure created by create-react-app, and you can customize it as per your project's requirements. As your React application grows, you may add additional folders and files to better organize your code.

App.js is the file which gets rendered on the screen.
_____________

npm start> Run the code

JSX:
JSX is not HTML inside JavaScript
JSX has HTML like syntax
JSX (JavaScript XML) is an extension to JavaScript that allows you to write HTML-like code within your JavaScript files. JSX elements are the building blocks of React components

Advantages of JSX:
>Developer Experience
>Syntactical SUgar
>readability
>Less code
>Maintainabilty
>No Repetition

class is a resevered keyword for classes and objects so we wont use class in react
We will be using className hereafter.

There are 2 types of components
state components
functional components

Nowadays, we use functional components, will explain you this first .

In App.js 
    > Firstcode write the code 
    >rerun the project agian

Let us create our own component.
And now we will create in separte files so that we will easy readability in code.

Few Things to remember while creating an component.
>The component name should start with capital letter
>it should return 1 JSX
>Whereever we need JS , we need to template syntax {}
>we should use className wherever we will be desining our page.


Now we created a Functional component right?
that is function we created

Now we know , we pass parameters and arguments to it 
In React how do we do that?

we say as Passing an props.
Now what is Props
Props is nothing but shortform for properties.
Props means passing some data to the functional component.

So now let c how we can pass it 










